Add October Monthly Update (#68)
rubygems/rubygems.github.io: _posts/2020-11-16-october-rubygems-update.md

---
title: October 2020 RubyGems Updates
layout: post
author: Gift Egwuenu
---

Welcome to the RubyGems monthly update! As part of our efforts at [Ruby Together](http://rubytogether.org/), we publish a recap of the work that we’ve done the previous month. Read on to find out what updates were made to RubyGems, Ruby Toolbox and RubyGems.org in September.

## RubyGems News

> In October we released a new Bundler version --- **`2.2.0.rc.2`**. We also upgraded Bundler's & Rubygems' vendored Molinillo to **`0.7.0`**  (it's latest release). - [#3402](https://github.com/rubygems/rubygems/pull/3402), [#3388](https://github.com/rubygems/rubygems/pull/3388). 

Reviewer: I'd highlight "In October, we released Bundler 2.2.0.rc.2 and rubygems 3.2.0.rc.2", and move the Molinillo upgrade to the list of other improvements.

Author: Thank you @deivid-rodriguez.

We also made the following changes and improvements:
* fixed an [issue with the `specific_platform` setting.](https://github.com/rubygems/rubygems/pull/4022) 

> * merged a PR that stops changing the CWD for building extensions, which should allow concurrent extension compilation without any contention.

Reviewer: I guess we should link to the PR here too?

```suggestion
* merged a PR that stops changing the CWD for building extensions, which should allow concurrent extension compilation without any contention. - [#3498](https://github.com/rubygems/rubygems/pull/3498)
```

> * worked on PRs to improve independence between test and lib code (simplifies and helps packagers), and changes to improve specs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* worked on PRs to improve independence between test and lib code (simplifies and helps packagers), and added some changes to improve specs.
```

* added improvements to require more default gems lazily.

> * fixed an issue with help commands when Bundler installed from `ruby-core` installer and `man` are not available. - [#3997](https://github.com/rubygems/rubygems/pull/3997)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* fixed an issue with help commands when Bundler has been installed by `ruby-core` installer and `man` is not available. - [#3997](https://github.com/rubygems/rubygems/pull/3997)
```

* wrapped up a PR to allow installing plugins from local paths. - [#4020](https://github.com/rubygems/rubygems/pull/4020)
* fixed daily Bundler CI by marking the new `pathname` default gem as unsupported. - [#4029](https://github.com/rubygems/rubygems/pull/4029)
* fixed a `Kernel.warn` stackoverflow. - [#3987](https://github.com/rubygems/rubygems/pull/3987)
* improved the deprecation path for gem query. - [#4021](https://github.com/rubygems/rubygems/pull/4021)
* fixed issues with Bundler not loading RubyGems plugins in `$LOAD_PATH` locations, which was affecting some version managers. - [#3534](https://github.com/rubygems/rubygems/pull/3534)

As always, we continue responding to RubyGems & Bundler issues and PRs, doing issue triage on both old and new issues, and reducing the number of open tickets.

In October, Rubygems gained [143 new commits](https://github.com/rubygems/rubygems/compare/master@%7B2020-10-01%7D...master@%7B2020-10-31%7D), contributed by 11 authors. There were 2889 additions and 1705 deletions across 889 files.

## RubyGems.org News

> This month we implemented a [bulk update to RubyGem downloads count](https://github.com/rubygems/rubygems.org/pull/2527) to reduce the processing time for `FastlyLogProcessor` by about 95%, up to 40 seconds. We studied an old HackerOne Report and proposed a solution for it that will get implemented into RubyGems.org. 

Author: Hi @sonalkr132, Can you help clarify this sentence? What was the previous processing time for example?
```we implemented a [bulk update to RubyGem downloads count](https://github.com/rubygems/rubygems.org/pull/2527) to reduce the processing time for `FastlyLogProcessor` by about 95%, up to 40 seconds. ```

Author: Alright, I think that's a better way of phrasing it.

We also made the following changes and improvements:

* imported Fastly rubygems.org production configuration to Terraform. - [#4](https://github.com/rubygems/rubygems-terraform/pull/4) 
* updated Fastly `vcl` to unset X-Forwarded-Host from requests to fix a HO report. - [#5](https://github.com/rubygems/rubygems-terraform/pull/5)

> * added regex whitelist for URL on honeycomb logs export to ensure we don't inadvertently send any sensitive information. - [#7](https://github.com/rubygems/rubygems-terraform/pull/7)

Reviewer 2: I am not sure if we are adding any value by adding links to private repo here. I link https://github.com/rubygems/rubygems-terraform in my task updates as some people in the channel may have access.

Author: True. I'll take the links out just mentioning the task works as well.
